BILL NUMBER:  S2058

 TITLE OF BILL :  An act to amend the civil practice law and rules, in
relation to out of state hospital records produced pursuant to
subpoena

 PURPOSE OF BILL :

The bill would amend the Civil Practice Law and Rules to simplify the
procedures by which hospital records located outside of New York State
may be admitted into evidence in civil actions.

 SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS :

Subdivision (c) of Rule 4518 of the civil practice law and rules is
amended by this bill, admissible as evidence in civil actions if the
records are certified or authenticated by the head of the hospital,
laboratory, department or bureau of a municipal corporation or of the
state, or by an employee delegated for that purpose or by a qualified
physician.

 JUSTIFICATION :

In many kinds of litigation hospital records provide crucial evidence,
either of the harm suffered by the plaintiff or of the events in
dispute. Under existing law, hospital records are admissible into
evidence if either the custodian of the records testifies in court as
to certain specific foundational facts indicating the records'
authenticity and reliability, or if the custodian provides a written
certification setting forth the same foundational requirements.

For a custodian of hospital records located outside of New York,
providing oral testimony can be difficult or impossible. Parties to
litigation therefore rely on written certification to allow records to
be brought into evidence. However, obtaining a written certification
that meets New York's specific procedural requirements can be
problematic, particularly if a custodian of those records is
unfamiliar with New York rules.

This bill will ease these procedural difficulties for all parties to
litigation by allowing hospital records located outside New York to be
certified in accordance with either the existing New York rules, or
the rules of the jurisdiction where the records are located and that a
custodian of records is likely to understand and comply with
routinely.

Existing New York Statutes, including but not limited to CPLR 4543,
3122 and 3122-a provide an instructive framework for these procedures.

 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY :

(2013-14) S.7534 - Referred to Judiciary
(2015-2016) S.1597A - Passed Senate, Died in Assembly Codes

 FISCAL IMPLICATIONS FOR STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS :

None.

 EFFECTIVE DATE :
Immediately.
